# Code of Conduct

Emerging Researchers in Exoplanet Science (ERES) has a zero tolerance policy
for harassment of any kind. All attendees have the right to a space free of all
forms of discrimination, harassment and retaliation. Harassment on the basis of
any characteristic, protected or otherwise, is a form of misconduct, and
violators of this policy will be subject to disciplinary action, as outlined
below.

We follow the [AAS Code of Ethics](https://aas.org/policies/ethics), and expect
all participants to read and abide by the statements in the [AAS Code of
Ethics](https://aas.org/policies/ethics).
As a Princeton-hosted event, ERES 2021 also abides by Princeton University's
[regulations on
conduct](https://inclusive.princeton.edu/addressing-concerns/policies).
Foremost among these is [Respect for
Others](https://rrr.princeton.edu/university#comp121).

It is important to bear in mind that harassment is in the eye of the victim.
Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply
immediately.

## What is harassment?

Harassment is defined as epithets, slurs or negative stereotyping; threatening,
intimidating or hostile acts; denigrating jokes and display or circulation of
written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion
toward an individual or group. It includes any unwelcome contact or discussion
of a sexual nature, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors,
verbal or physical harassment of a sexual nature, and obscene or sexist
remarks. Harassment can be targeted at one particular characteristic, or can be
intersectional in tone. Women of color, for example, can experience racialized
sexual harassment that targets the intersection of their identities.

For more information on sexual harassment and how it can manifest in astronomy,
see the Fed Up With Sexual Harassment series on the Women in Astronomy blog.
The fifth in the series specifically deals with harassment at the intersection
of gender and race:
[1](http://womeninastronomy.blogspot.com/2014/05/fed-up-with-sexual-harassment-defining.html),
[2](http://womeninastronomy.blogspot.com/2014/05/fed-up-with-sexual-harassment-survival.html),
[3](http://womeninastronomy.blogspot.com/2014/05/fed-up-with-sexual-harassment-serial.html),
[4](http://womeninastronomy.blogspot.com/2014/05/fed-up-with-sexual-harassment-power-to.html),
[5](http://womeninastronomy.blogspot.com/2014/05/fed-up-with-sexual-harassment-guest.html).

Often these incidents can take the form of “microaggressions,” which are one of
the most pervasive and damaging forms of harassment. Microaggressions are the
everyday verbal, nonverbal, and environmental slights, snubs, or insults,
whether intentional or unintentional, which communicate hostile, derogatory, or
negative messages to target individuals based upon their marginalized group
membership. For example, commenting on a woman’s appearance rather than her
work is a microaggression; telling someone of colour that they “speak such good
English” is another example. Exclusion from a group can be a common nonverbal
form of microaggression. Often, microaggressions can be couched in the form of
a “compliment,” (e.g. “you’re too attractive to be a scientist”) which causes
additional stress to the target when trying to decide how to respond. Targets
of microaggressions must spend time decoding the insult (“This person just
implied that I don’t belong in science”), wondering whether it was intentional
(“Did this person mean it in the way I took it? Should that affect my
response?”), and deciding whether to speak up and risk being branded as
“oversensitive” by the perpetrator or others in the group (“All s/he did was
pay you a compliment! Why are you overreacting?”) or ignore the comment and
feel like they should have said something (“Why didn’t I stand up for myself?
Does s/he now think that’s an OK thing to say to me?”). Over time, these
comments can take a great toll on mental and emotional health, and the target’s
feeling of belonging in science and academia.

## Recognizing Harassment

If you are feeling uncomfortable in a situation, or if you notice an
interaction between others that makes you uncomfortable, trust your gut, even
if you can’t explain exactly what triggered your response. An excellent guest
[post on John Johnson’s blog](http://mahalonottrash.blogspot.com/2013/12/closing-time-at-astronomy-nightclub.html)
described the “alarm bells” that we all have that tell us that something isn’t
right, even if we can’t identify exactly what. Trust these instincts! Research
shows that we are often subconsciously picking up on warning signs that we have
not consciously registered.

If you notice an interaction between other people that causes you concern, be
prepared to intervene. This can be as simple as joining their conversation, or
inviting them to join yours. Again, the guest blog post linked above has some
good suggestions for ways to intervene without potential risks to a junior
colleague’s career. If you do not feel comfortable taking direct action, please
contact a member of the ERES organizing staff for assistance, even if you are
unsure of the situation.

## Procedure for reporting harassment

If you wish to report harassment, suspect that someone else is being harassed,
or have any other concerns, please contact a member of the ERES virtual
organizing committee immediately. No one will be faulted for making a report in
good faith about suspected harassment. The committee’s response to witnessed or
experienced harassment will be to report the conduct to Princeton University as per the
University’s anti-harassment policy and, based on discussion and
agreement with the person being harassed, take action accordingly. This can
range from requesting that no administrative processes be initiated, to
informal resolution such as a letter of reprimand, to formal resolution
including disciplinary action and police involvement.

If you have any questions or concerns regarding this policy, please contact the
ERES Virtual Organizing Committee at eresorganizers@gmail.com.

